<h1>1. Introduction to Python</h1>

<p>This is the first lesson in the context of Course HEC <i>Law Project Legal Data Analytics</i></p>

First a bit of Semantics:

<ul><li><b>The Code</b> is what you'll be writing as input in the console. The .py files found in Script contain 
some code ready to be deployed in the Console, but you'll also be writing your own code and store it in 
these files for later use. 
</li>
    <li><b>The Console</b> is the environment where you'll be inputting code to generate outputs. As long as you 
do not restart the console, your variables and data will remain active; but all this disappears whenever you shut 
down PyCharm, so you'll need to make sure to store and save your data.</li>
    <li><b>Comments</b> are greyed out bits of non-code, natural language, to describe and explain the code. 
To write a comment, just use the hashtag <code>#</code>.    
<li><b>Errors</b> are what happens when you try to execute invalid code. The most frequent types of 
errors are:<ol><i>Syntax Error</i>, when you just made a mistake in the Syntax, which is paramount in Python; and</ol>
<ol><i>Type Error</i>, when you are trying to work with two incompatible types of data.</ol></li>
    <li><b>Pycharm</b> is an IDE, or Integrated Development Environment. It's just an easier way to code, as 
all your files are there together with the console. You code is also automatically colored according to the nature 
of the different objects and variables you are using. Amongst the main shortcuts, you should know:
<ol><i>Up Arrow</i>, when in the console, input the previous inputs in order;</ol>
<ol><i>The Tab key</i> autofills your code, or offers a menu of option to choose from; and</ol>
<ol><i>Alt+Shift+E</i> (on Windows - may be different on Macs), automatically input and execute a line of code 
highlighted from a .py script.
</ol></li></ul>

<b>1. </b>Computer code, at its most basic, calculates stuff. You can think of this course and everything that 
follows as expanding the uses of a calculator. For instance, if you input 2+2, output will be 4.

Typically, in Python you'd use the command `print` to have stuff appear on your screen. It is also more precise, as 
it gives your computer the exact command to process: if you type two lines of computation before pressing enter, 
only the last will render; however, both will render an output if you specify that both need to be printed.

`print` is a <em>command</em>. Like most commands, it requires some <em>arguments</em>, that are indicated within 
brackets - as here 2+2.

<b>2. </b>We will come back to functions a bit later. Before that, we need to discuss <em>variables</em>, which you can think of as recipients in which you store information.

Variables are typically written in lower caps; the way  you assign data to a variable is with a `=` sign, according 
to the syntax `variable = value`.
You can then use variables directly in functions (such as print), or do operations between them.

You can assign and re-assign variables at will: you can even assign a variable to 
another variable. 

Variables that contain numbers can also be added or subtracted to with a specific syntax: `var += 2` means that 2 
will be added to my variable, and this every time I input this command.

<b>3. </b>Variables need not be numbers. They can also be text, which in Python is known as a `string`. Likewise, you can make operations with them, such as collating two strings.

Do note that the print command does exactly what you ask it to do: it did not insert a space between the two strings here, it's for you to think of this kind of details.

Also important to keep into account is that strings are different from number. And you cannot, for instance, add 
strings to number: this would throw a TypeError.

In what follows, we'll use text and strings taken from Mervyn Peake's poem <a href ="https://gormenghasts.tumblr.com/post/80656474535/the-frivolous-cake-a-freckled-and-frivolous-cake"><i>The Frivolous Cake</i></a>. I have numeroted every verse; we'll store it in a variable for now and come back to it later.
