# Syntax

<b>1.</b> Finally, some notions of syntaxes. You write code as you would write anything: sequentially. This means 
you first define your variables or your functions before using it, or Python won't be able to know what you mean. 
This being said, there are two basic syntaxic ideas that are crucial to any coding script - or indeed, to any software you are currently using. These are loops, and conditions.

<b>2.</b>A `loop`,  tells Python to go over (the term is "iterate") a number of elements, most often from a list. 
The syntax is always the same: `for x in list: y`, where "x" represents the temporary name of element in the "list" in 
turn, and "y" what happens to that "x". In other words, start with the first element (called "x" in the context of 
the loop), do stuff ("y") with that element, then go over the 
next element (which will also be called "x"). 

You will note that for your loop to work, the second level of instructions needs to be shifted to the right (and you 
have a colon at the end of your `for` statement). That's 
called identation, and this is crucial in Python. It's also one of the main reasons why people don't like this 
language. Other languages are more explicit as to when a section of your code is actually contained in another 
section: for example, in C++ you would put stuff within brackets, or indicate the end of a statement with a semi-colon.

<b>3.</b> The second important syntax element, and really the basic building block of so much code that runs your 
daily life, is the `if/else` statement. It simply asks if a condition is met, and then accomplish the resulting code.
The syntax is of the form `if x:` , where "x" need to be True (in the boolean sense) for the (indented) code coming 
after the colon to output. 2 + 2 = 4, so a statement `if 2+2 == 4: print("Correct")` would print correct. (Note that 
we use "==" to check an identity, since the single "=" sign is used to assign variables.)

In the example below, we will check that the letter "e" (i.e., a string corresponding to the lower case "e") is present in a list of words.

They are several ways to syntax `if` statements:
<ul><li>With an <code>is in</code> if need to check that an item is part of a list or a set (or the inverse 
<code>is not in</code>)</li>
    <li>By itself if you are checking a boolean (<code>if my_bol:</code> will return <code>True</code> or 
<code>False</code> depending on the value of <code>my_bol</code>)</li>
    <li>With the double equal sign <code>==</code> for identity between two variables, or <code>!=</code> for lack of 
identity</li>
    <li>With a combination of the signs <code>></code>, <code><</code> and <code>=</code> when comparing two 
quantities.</li></ul>

This is all, or nearly. On the basis of the very basic concepts I just introduced to you run most of the rest of the Python scripts you can see out there. 

<b>6.</b> <u>Exercise 3</u>On the basis of what you learned in the past hour, please iterate over the lines of the 
poem (not the individual words), in order to find the number of terms "cake" and "knife" (not counting the one in 
the title). Print that number.
