# Manipulating Files

<b>1.</b> This course is about data analysis, not software creating. You'll mostly use the Console, and won't 
particularly need to write `.py` scripts, invent new classes, etc. Scripts can record methods and functions you 
invented, but most analyses are transient: you use it on the go, sometimes for a single task, and get to something 
else.

And yet, the data to be analysed needs to be stored. We'll now see the basics of this.

<b>2. </b>But first a word about how computers work. You've got memory: your hard drive. You've got RAM: Random 
Access Memory, which is what your computer use to perform its basic tasks. There is a constant <i>va et vient</i> 
between the two. When you create a new variable in the Console, it's stored in RAM; if you want to use it next time, 
you need to store it in the secondary, hard memory.

<b>3. </b>You can do that through Python, but you need an interface between the code and your computer 
environment. Fortunately, Python relies on the same kind of methods that are at the basis of most computers (since 
they get their roots in the UNIX system). If you open the Command Prompt (`cmd` on Windows, or the Terminal on a Mac),
you can navigate between folders with the command `cd` (for "Change directory"), or create a new folder with `mkdir`.

<b>4. </b>By default, the Console is virtually located in the folder that hosts your Python Project. 
One particular package, `os`, is a module that lets you navigate through, and 
manipulate files with Python. 

Three commands in particular will be useful during this course:
<ul><li><b>os.getcwd()</b>, which means "Get Current Working Directory", outputs the current position of Python 
within your files</li>
<li><b>os.chdir("x")</b>, which "changes dir" to the directory x you specify in argument (x needs to be a subfolder 
of the current folder: you cannot directly change dir to a sub-sub-folder, for instance).</li>
<li><b>os.listdir(".")</b>, which returns a list of files in a directory (using the "." argument means: in the 
current directory.)</li></ul>

(Note that the argument we gave to the listdir() method was ".", which usually means "this current folder", whereas 
".." always means "parent folder".)

`os` is also very helpful to manipulate files from Python, for instance renaming them. Instead of spending hours 
renaming hundreds of files (a common thing for junior lawyers), you can do it with the `os.rename(x, y)` method, which changes file x into y.

Note that the resulting file is now corrupted: you changed the extension from `txt` to `.txta`, which is unknown - 
and so you can't read it anymore. There are ways to control for this, but this is the subject of the exercise.

<b>5. </b> Anyhow, back to storing data. The canonical way to do it in Python is by opening a file and storing it in a 
variable. This variable (or object) comes with distinct methods, such as "read()" which returns the data inside the 
file. Another method is "write()", which allows you to add to the existing data.

To create a new file, you'd use the with syntax `with open("your_file_name.txt", "a") as f:`; and then, in the 
indented part of the code, you use the "write()" method of the "f" object to add your text to the data.
Note the "a"argument, which means that you want to both read and write in the file (you could input "r" only for reading, or "w" only for writing). 

*** You may want to learn a bit about encoding, and the <a href="https://nedbatchelder.com/text/unipain/unipain. html#1">Unipain</a>***

<b>6. </b> This is text data, arguably the most straightforward type of data to handle. As we'll see in the next 
task, however, a lot of what you'll be handling is structured data: either in marked-up format (XML, HTML), or in 
some kind of spreadsheet. You probably know Excel's native `.xls` format for spreadsheet, but there are plenty 
others, and a good deal of data analysis relies on a simple format called `.csv` - which stands for comma-separated 
value.

Depending on what you do, you might not need to rely on these methods much: we'll see at some point 
how to handle data with pandas, which has its own, more straightforward methods to save and load data. Likewise, XML 
tools in Python typically have their own methods. Another very popular format is JSON, but we won't use any of it in 
this course.

<b>7. </b> Beyond text, .csv, and structured content, data is sometimes enclosed in .pdfs. Now, this is an issue: .
pdfs are not meant for data analysis, their (main) interest, and the reason why they have been invented, is to be a 
format that preserves a maximum the appearance of a file, on all platforms. But this is not a data-friendly format.

Unfortunately, a lot of data out here is found in .pdfs, so you'll have to wrestle with them to extract their data. 
For this, you'll need to use a third-party library dedicated to .pdfs files, such as `pyPDF2` or `pdfminer`. But the 
principle is the same: you open your .pdf and store it in an object, and then you use methods from this object (they 
would differ depending on the package used) to obtain the data you are interested in.

<u>Exercise 4</u> Go to the `Gibberish` folder in the Data folder (using os.chdir()), and rename all files whose 
name only has one sequence of numbers (for instance, `Example_File_10786.txt`, but not `Example_File_10786_1.txt`). 
Rename these files by adding `_main` to their name, but be careful not to alter the file extensions (`.txt`). How many files have you 
renamed ?

<u>Exercise 5</u> While doing this, and without looking at it in your navigator (in any case it won't work), find in 
the "Gibberish" folder the answer to this exercise. There is one file that starts (precisely) with the words 
"ANSWER=", and then there is a two-digit number that is the answer you are looking for.
