# Regex

<b>1. </b>In Exercice 2, we devised a basic algorithm to count the number of words in a text. However, there is a 
much better, simple way to do this: It's time to introduce regular expressions,  or "regex" for short. (more info <a href='https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html'>here</a>)

We'll spend some time on it because it is extremely important for text-heavy applications; in a course about
finance  or statistics we would not need it too much, but since we'll be analysing judgments and legal texts, regexes
    are essential. And they are great. At the end of this task, you'll be annoyed every time search engines (like 
Google) don't do regex. It's just so much better.

<b>2. </b>Regexes are <i>patterns</i> that allow you to identify text. These patterns rely on special symbols to 
cover a range of characters in natural, written language. Because they rely on patterns, it's much more powerful 
than a search that focuses on a specific word: the word itself might be conjugated, or put in lower caps; a sentence 
could have extra words. You might be interested in a range of number and not a specific one, etc.
    
For instance, the symbol "\d" means "any number", and if you try to match this pattern with a sentence that includes a number, there will be a positive result.

<b>3. </b>Regex.search() will return a regex object, which comes with a number of characteristics. For instance, the 
"result" object stores the start of the matching pattern in the target sentence, as well as its end, and the exact 
matched 
pattern (method ".group()").

You'd note that there were two numbers in the target sentence, but the "search" function only found one - the first 
one. To get all matches, you need another function, which is "findall", and returns a list of result. Let's solve the 
previous exercise with `findall`. When to use `search` or `findall` depends on the use case.

<b>4. </b>In addition, you have `re.sub(pattern, newpattern, target_sentence)`, that substitutes a pattern for a new 
pattern, as well as re.split(pattern, target_sentence) which returns a list of strings from the original text, as 
split by the pattern. Notice that the result does not display the splitting pattern.

<b>5. </b>All very good, now, here are the basic patterns:
<ul><li>Any particular word or exact spelling will match itself: <code>cake</code> will match <code>cake</code> (but not 
<code>Cake</code>, unless you command regex to be case-insensitive);</li>
    <li><code>.</code>, catches anything, really, so <code>c.ke</code> would get "cake" or "coke", or even "cOke";</li>
    <li><code>\s</code> matches white spaces, including line breaks, etc.; note that the upper-case version, 
<code>\S</code>,matches anything <i>but</i> a white space; and</li>
    <li><code>\w</code> matches a letter, while <code>\W</code> matches anything but a letter.</li>
    </ul>
In addition, the following rules apply:
<ul><li>Square brackets can be used to indicate a range of characters, such as <code>[0-8a-q,]</code> will only look 
for a number between 0 and 8 OR a letter between a and q, or a comma (if you need hyphens in your range, put them at 
the end of the range);
</li>
    <li>The symbol <code>|</code> (that's Alt + 6 on your keyboard) means "or";</li>
    <li>You'd indicate the expected number of hits with braces: <code>[A-Q]{3}</code> means you are looking for three 
(consecutive) upper-case letters between A and Q, while <code>[A-Q]{3,6}</code> means you expect between 3 and 6, 
and <code>[A-Q]{3,}</code> means "at least 3" (but potentially more), on the same logic as indexing (except use 
commas instead of colons). Two special characters do the same job, but open-ended, "+" means that you are expected 
at least one hit, while <code>*</code> means you expect any number of hits (including none; add a <code>?</code> for 
non-greediness). A concrete example would be <code>\d{4}</code>: a date;</li>
    <li>Any pattern becomes optional if you add a <code>?</code> behind it: <code>cakey?</code> will find <code>cakey</code> or 
<code>cake</code>;</li>
    <li>You can group patterns by bracketing them with parentheses, and then build around it: for instance, <code>(
[0-8a-q])|([9r-z])</code>. You can even name the groups to retrieve them precisely from the regex object when there is a match.</li>
    <li>Characters that are usually used for patterns (such as  <code>?</code> or  <code>|</code>) can be searched for 
themselves by "escaping" them with an anti-slash  <code>\</code> (and the antislash can be escaped with another 
antislash:  <code>\\</code> will look for  <code>\</code>). Note that <code>regex</code> provides you with an 
<code>escape</code> function that returns a pattern, but escaped.</li>
    </ul>

Regex really turns powerful in that you can add a number of conditions to you regex pattern.

<ul><li>A pattern preceded by a  <code>^</code> will be looked for unly at the beginning of a line; a pattern 
followed by a <code>$</code> will only look for it if it finishes the line or text;</li>
    <li>Adding a <code>(?=2ndpattern)</code> <i>after</i> your first pattern will indicate that your first pattern 
will match <i>only if</i> the target text matches your second pattern, but the second pattern won't be caught by the regex object (this is very useful, e.g., for substitution).</li>
    <li>In the same vein, <code>(?!2ndpattern)</code>, <code>(?&lt;=2ndpattern)</code>, and <code>(?!&lt;2ndpattern)
</code> are conditions for "if it does not match after"; "if it matches before", and "if it doesn't match before", 
respectively. This can be hungry in terms of computing power, so don't overdo it.</li>    
    </ul>

Latest versions of regex also provides for fuzzy searches - that is, with a bit of leeway to catch things despite errors in the pattern (this is exponentially greedy in resources, though, so be careful when you use it). For instance, re.search("(coke){e<=1}", poem), where the braced statement means "one or less errors (e)" will find "cake", as there is only one difference (the latter o/a) between the pattern and the word. 

Finally, there are so-called <i>flags</i> that are typically used outside of the pattern (but can be used inside for a single sub-pattern), as a third argument, to indicate further instructions, such as:
<ul><li>Ignorecase, <code>re.I</code></li>
    <li>Ignore linebreaks <code>re.S</code></li>
    <li>Verbose (allows you to add white spaces that don't count as pattern), <code>re.X</code></li>
    <li>Multilines (<code>$</code> and <code>^</code> will work for any single line, and not simply for the start 
and end of the full text), <code>re.M</code></li>
    </ul>

Regex count as boolean: <code>if result</code> will return <code>True</code> if there was a match, while you can check 
for a null result by asking "if result is None". (`None` is a special Python object that means that data is empty.)

Note that there are tools to help you check if your regexes work well on the given dataset, such as <a 
href="https://www.debuggex.com/">this one</a> online.

<u>Exercise 6</u> Hardest exercise so far: you need to create an algorithm. Write some code that will identify the 
number of the line, in the poem, that meets the following conditions: 
<ul><li>An odd number of words, but fewer than 8 in total (<u>not</u> counting the numbers at the beginning of the line)</li>
    <li>At least one "ake" sound in it;</li>
    <li>No capitalised letter except for the first one; and</li>
    <li>The most "e"s;</li>
    </ul>

There is only one line that meets all these conditions. You can do it multiple ways, using all the methods you have learned so far.
