# Dataframes

<b>1. </b>A lot of the analyses you'll be asked to perform will be based on a dataframe, i.e., a spreadsheet where 
data is structured in rows and columns. 

There are other ways to store, access, and exploit data (we'll discuss Structured Data in the next Lesson), but 
usually even that data is at one point converted into a dataframe, over which you'll perform (and record) your analyses.

<b>2. </b>The main and most popular module in Python for dataframes is called `pandas`, and frequently abbreviated 
as `pd`. Think of pandas in this context as an equivalent of Microsoft Excel - except 
infinitely more flexible (though you can do much more with Excel if you learn VBA, the language powering it).

We'll introduce you very softly to pandas today, keeping most of the heavy work for another lesson - but you'll need 
the basics to properly follow through the lessons on Scraping, for instance.

<b>3. </b>This course comes pre-loaded with a `.csv` file about decisions from the Conseil D'Etat in November 2021. 
We'll perform a number of operations over it to showcase `pandas`'s abilities.

You first load the file with pandas, which makes it easy for you for a dedicated `read_csv` function (no need to use 
a reader/writer as we just saw before).

Then we can do a bit of data investigation, see what's the most interesting column or data, etc. One first useful tool is the `.value_count()` method, 
which allow you to see the rough distribution of a variable. You can use `.loc` to get a slice of the dataframe 
based on a condition (which should be True), or `.at` to get a particular cell if you know its index. Iterating over a 
dataframe is often done with `iterrows` - which provides you with two elements (index, and a row that can be indexed 
with column names).

It will help you, already at this stage, to correctly understand what kind of input you are dealing with after every 
pandas command. There is a distinction, first, between a dataframe and a Series (which is a one column df, or an 
indexed list).

Finally, note that you can always put all dataframes objects into your clipboard - i.e., to paste it back in an 
excel spreadsheet for instance.

<b>Exercise 7</b>
In the "BIT Data.csv" file (which is in your Legal Data Analysis > Data > CSVs folder), find the index and column name of the only cell containing the word "Copenhagen". There is only one answer. 

Use only pandas (so you'll need to load the file with pd.read_csv(), and then investigate what are its columns, etc.).

Hint: remember the function "range(x, y)", which gives you all numbers between x (inclusive) and y (non inclusive).
